Okay.
Hi.
Hi everybody.
I'm Allen West and I am beyond thrilled to be here on the stage with um,
Katie Kirk.
And we're so happy to have Katie here with us,
um,
beyond just so many accomplishments and o l and no,
I mean seriously as someone who,
um,
you know,
watched Katie literally on the world's longest running today show fan,
which,
um,
but 15 years is co anchor of the today show where I think she showed that,
you know,
being a tough,
insightful journalists was not incompatible with being,
um,
you know,
a human being and responding to the people who,
the wide variety of people who came in front of her with kindness and empathy.
And that's just been a real inspiration to me.
And I know to lots of other people,
the first woman to anchor an evening news programs solo at CBS evening news
starting in 2006 in 2014,
she joined Yahoo is the global news anchor.
But in addition to all of that,
I'm a bestselling author.
I'm a producer of documentaries and also,
um,
amazingly an incredible health care advocate and cancer advocate.
And I was just blown away when I was looking through Katie's bio that as a
cofounder of stand up to cancer and the National Colorectal Cancer Research
Alliance,
um,
that over $370 million has been pledged to stand up to cancer.
So
closer to 500 million now.
Wow.
I think
just really phenomenal.
But,
um,
that bringing that to people's attention in such advocacy,
which is of course something we tried to do here at,
at Google and those are Google size numbers.
Um,
so I think the obvious question to start out with,
and we were talking about this,
um,
I listened to your podcast with Doris Kearns Goodwin earlier this week on the
election.
Um,
what are your thoughts?
What happened?
How much time do we,
hi everyone.
I'm really excited to be here.
Thank you all for coming.
And Ellen,
thank you for,
for doing this.
Um,
and thanks for mentioning my cancer work and I'd love to explain stand up to
cancer maybe at some point during this interview because I think it's an
interesting and,
um,
very novel sort of paradigm for how we're tackling cancer research and helping
scientists,
um,
and supporting scientists.
But what was the question?
What happened?
My feeling,
um,
I think like everyone,
my head is spinning.
I think it's a very anxiety producing time because there's so much uncertainty.
Um,
I think probably everyone in this room and everyone watching this and however
they watch it,
um,
had they've been reading all these postmortem pieces and what happened?
How did this election turn out this way?
What were the forces that,
uh,
convalesced or came together to make Donald Trump our next president?
Which is just really,
I mean,
it's almost,
it blows your mind even say it because it just,
it's such an unlikely situation.
And the polls,
as we know,
we're not very accurate,
although the national polls had her ahead three points and within the margin of
error.
So it turns out they weren't as wrong as people have said.
I think some lesser state polls swing state polls might've been more inaccurate,
but I think,
you know,
it's,
everyone has seen,
um,
this was as,
as David Axelrod,
I think so aptly put it,
a primal scream across the country by group of disenfranchised Americans who
feel as if the American dream has left them out or left them behind.
Um,
I think there are so many contributing forces.
The economy,
blue collar workers,
a manufacturing base that has been eroding for many decades now.
Um,
I think globalization has winners and losers and I think perhaps we were too
kind of intellectually based on what globalization would mean for the future in
the,
in the big picture,
but maybe didn't think enough about the people who would be disadvantaged by
globalization and by automation,
you know,
for a fact that I,
I think I read in the economist that I quoted a lot during the course of this
campaign is between 2000 and 2010 only 13% of the manufacturing jobs in this
country were actually lost a trade.
The Mat,
vast majority have been lost to automation.
So I think we're in the midst of this massively changing economy.
And if you step away and look at the big picture,
it's not unlike going from an agrarian to an industrial society where no,
now going more from an industrial to a technological society.
And I don't need to tell her one at Google that.
So I think it's all these different forces at work.
I think Hillary couldn't,
could click Clinton failed to galvanize some of the,
the voting blocks that Barack Obama did so effectively in 2012 and I think
there's a big disconnect between the,
uh,
ex urban voters and rural voters and people who live in urban centers.
Um,
so I think there are a lot of,
a lot of reasons why things turned out the way they did.
And,
um,
I think we're kind of still dealing with what this means.
How do we get here?
What does it mean and the uncertainty about what Donald Trump will actually do
as president.
Um,
you know,
a friend of mine,
Brian Goldsmith,
who I cope post or whatever you call it,
my podcast with,
he's just an incredibly smart guy.
And I've worked with him since was at CBS.
Um,
we actually worked on this Sarah Palin interview and that was a very bonding
experience for both of us.
Um,
but,
um,
you know,
he talks about it was a change election,
people really just,
Haley Barber told me when I interviewed him on Yahoo,
basically America was giving the middle finger to Washington and people wanted
change.
And I think,
uh,
Donald Trump's message of change resonated more than Hillary Clinton's message
of Donald Trump is too big a risk for America.
And even though in exit polls people said that they worried about his competence
and if he was qualified to be president,
I think most people said he wasn't the change notion and the change message
resonated much more with voters.
So despite the fact that they worried about is competence,
they were ready to give Washington the middle finger.
So one other thing that obviously is being hotly debated at the moment is the
role of the press and the shift to the role of the social media.
Right.
Um,
in the selection.
And I'm just wondering,
um,
what was your take on how both of the candidates interacted with traditional
press versus social media and what do you think the presses responsibility is
and where we've ended up?
Wow,
that's great.
Three part question.
So I'm,
there's an excellent piece in the Times that I was reading about how social
media has really transformed the country in terms of how we get information,
how we formed communities,
how we share information,
how we influence,
uh,
the hearts and minds of voters everywhere.
So I think,
uh,
this article posits that Donald Trump could not have been elected without social
media,
which called dis and disintermediation,
you know,
just directly talking to voters through his Twitter account,
which has been quite active apparently this morning about the New York Times.
Um,
and so,
um,
I think social media played a huge,
huge role and as a result,
I think it made traditional mainstream media are lame stream media,
if you want to call us that.
I don't even know if I'm considered lame stream still at Yahoo if someone can
help me with that.
But I think,
uh,
you know,
it's,
it's made that that entity or the media as an institution in terms of
traditional media less and less relevant.
David Brooks,
I think,
set on Sunday,
you know,
we were completely irrelevant.
So you have all these different narratives that are floating around that a
traditional media is irrelevant,
that traditional media is culpable for Donald Trump's rise to power.
And I think we're still sorting it out.
I think every after every election,
and I've been doing this a long time,
there's a lot of hand wringing that media outlets focus too much on the horse
race and not enough about issues and not what these candidates would actually do
if they're elected.
Not really taking a deep dive into those things.
Um,
and I think this one is no different,
and I think the cult of personality in this particular campaign was so strong
and I,
and,
and I think it was often dictated by Donald Trump's outrageous statements.
They would sort of dominate the news coverage and suck all the oxygen out of the
room that he sort of,
he was kind of a one man.
Um,
uh,
how would you see,
I don't know how to describe it.
So he was,
you know,
setting the agenda for the media himself.
You know,
when we used to do the today show when there wasn't as much media,
we used to say,
we like to set the agenda for the day,
you know,
talk about the important stories that everybody else was going to be covering
that day.
But I think Donald Trump kind of usurped that.
And he was actually setting the agenda and he was incredibly proficient at it.
And I think often people followed his lead.
You know,
it's a very,
it's a highly competitive landscape.
More so more than ever before because there are so many different outlets and I
think people,
we're often afraid.
For example,
you know,
I've talked to friends of mine in morning television and you know,
we would have probably never allowed a candidate to call on the phone and to do
an interview with that,
that individual.
But Donald Trump did that and people were too afraid not to do it because they
thought we'll,
if their competitors were doing that,
that would give them an advantage in the ratings.
And you know,
let's face it,
it's still,
television is very much about ratings.
You know,
it's,
it's a profit driven business.
And so,
you know,
I think that people made a lot of deals with the devil.
I think,
you know,
initially there was too much,
um,
open coverage of his rallies without any critical analysis,
which is,
I think the New York Times talked about one point $7 billion in free advertising
or something that he got in the early stages of the campaign.
I think there was a lot of self correction later in the election cycle and
outlets like the Washington Post and the New York Times.
Really,
I would salute the Washington Post even more than the times because I think they
were a little late to the party,
the New York Times on,
on really analyzing these candidates and really doing some serious investigative
reporting of,
of their foundations,
et cetera.
Um,
but,
and I think that that television outlets sort of self corrected to,
to the extent they could,
you know,
there's not a lot of long form serious reporting done on television these days.
If you look at,
you know,
very short pieces on the evening news and the morning shows,
um,
I think have it,
you know,
short,
short segments as well and are a little less serious possibly than they used to
be back in the day.
So I guess the bottom line is,
you know,
I think there's going to be,
uh,
this period of reckoning,
figuring out what went wrong,
what went right.
And I just hope the commercial forces that influence these decisions won't drown
out the sort of journalistic principles that we need to adhere to.
And I thought,
you know,
I was saying to Ellen before we came,
came on,
um,
you know,
it was frustrating for me.
I,
Donald Trump wouldn't do an interview with me.
I mean,
I didn't think,
I don't think he's soup.
I think television is his main source of information.
And,
um,
I don't think he was aware of the power of the online community in terms of,
I mean,
he was,
and he wasn't right.
I mean,
he obviously utilize Twitter to,
to great effect,
but,
um,
so I was frustrated that he wouldn't sit with me and frustrated and surprise
that Hillary Clinton wouldn't sit down.
Uh,
and I think,
um,
you know,
I,
I'm not sure what Mr Trump's explanation might be.
Maybe he didn't understand the platform.
Maybe,
you know,
it's the ghost of Sarah Pailin in my case.
I don't know.
But,
um,
you know,
I think for Hillary Clinton,
I think her campaign was so cautious that she wanted to hold onto her support at
anything.
You know,
I think they looked at everything as a risk benefit,
uh,
situation.
And I,
you know,
I did her first interview when she became first lady in the early nineties,
and I,
you know,
I've been around her,
I know her,
she is a very different person,
um,
in person and in a more intimate setting than she is on the campaign trail.
But I,
I believe they didn't provide people with an opportunity to see her.
Um,
and,
and as a result,
I think she was character,
caricature,
characterize caricatured character,
whatever.
You know what I mean?
She became a caricature as somebody who was just sort of brittle and shrill,
which I think is a very sexist word by the way.
Um,
uh,
and,
and somebody who did not have this ability to connect us as a real person and I
think it really hurt her in the end.
Um,
so I want to translate,
sorry,
I'm giving such long answers.
I'll try not to do that.
I think we're all,
am I talking too much?
Blah,
blah,
blah.
No.
Okay.
We've
all been wrestling with this here as well.
And so these are,
I think these are,
um,
helpful,
uh,
remarks for all of us is we're all trying to come to terms with,
with what's happened.
I want to transition slightly just shocked about women in journalism because you
touched on just the use of the word shrill with Hillary Clinton.
And I remember my husband even saying to me after the first debate,
and he's more on the conservative end of the political spectrum,
but he said,
I never understood until today the penalty that intelligent women there for
being intelligent in command of the facts,
that that was turned by the other side into a negative,
that somehow she was rehearsed and robotic,
whereas she was thoughtful,
prepared,
experienced.
Um,
and so I just wanted to ask what being a woman in,
in journalism,
um,
the news about Gwen Ifo,
which we spoke about this week,
I think again,
just brings home,
we've made some progress,
but there's,
um,
pretty rare for women to break the glass ceiling in journalism still all these
years later.
Um,
how do you feel about the current state of journalism is journalism as a
profession for women?
We've got lots of young women here who work in media and related industries.
Is this,
what does it look like to you?
Well,
um,
you know,
I think they're your first point about a criticism of her.
I think that speaks to this anti intellectual sentiment that's kind of
pulsating,
not only across our country but across the world.
Kind of.
I remember hearing someone when the Brexit vote,
before the Brexit vote was happening and saying something like,
you know,
what do experts know as if it's,
it's actually,
uh,
a character flaw to be a proficient and educated and well versed in a particular
subject area.
So I think that's,
that's going on as well,
which I think is very disturbing and upsetting.
Um,
but I think with,
with women,
uh,
so
I mean,
I think there's good news and bad news for,
for women in media.
One,
the good news is there are so many outlets and so many opportunities.
You know,
it used to be,
you used to be so limited in terms of,
I'll speak about just television news,
working at a local station and can going from market to market.
And you know,
I worked at ABC as a desk assistant where basically my biggest jobs were getting
coffee and ham sandwiches for the anchor at the time.
Frank Reynolds and answering the phone and Xerox Sane.
And do they still xerox anywhere,
by the way?
Probably not.
Well are you going to have to change like the teletype ribbons,
which were purple with a little white gloves?
I mean that's how ancient I am.
But um,
you know,
so there are many,
many outlets and I think if you work hard and you,
you know,
can can get your foot in the door at a whole host of places,
you have an opportunity to rise at the top.
And I've seen just some great,
fantastic work by a lot of young journalists and you know,
online publications.
I'm obsessed with the Vanity Fair newsletter,
which is called the hive,
which a lot of young women are doing really well there and clearly and outlets
like the Huffington Post.
We have a lot of young women on our staff at Yahoo.
So I think there are,
as I said,
many,
many more opportunities.
Um,
having said that,
I,
I'm,
I'm chagrin that there aren't more women in leadership positions.
Certainly at the networks.
If you look at,
you know,
in some cases there are some women in leadership,
but I believe almost every network,
the president of the news division is male.
Um,
I think if you look at all the Sunday public affairs shows,
uh,
I think they're all anchored by by men.
Um,
and I think,
you know,
there's still sort of a double standard.
I think women,
uh,
on television have to be hot.
You know,
there's this kind of,
I don't know if it's the Fox influence where it's,
you know,
sort of a shine more a shiny object.
I think,
you know,
you can be both,
but there seems to be a much greater emphasis on women's appearances.
Then on men's,
I'm just just dying for the day when someone is oldest,
a woman is old,
is Bob Schieffer can get on and talk about the election.
Can you imagine?
I mean,
it just wouldn't happen,
would it?
Because we'd be like,
oh my God,
she's so old.
Do you,
you know,
and,
and I think that,
I think when I watched that,
I think,
hey,
Bob Schieffer has a lot of interesting things to say.
He's incredibly experienced.
Wouldn't it be great if there he had a female counterpart who was also,
I don't know,
81 years old,
I'm not sure.
But you know,
I,
I can't imagine the day but I'm,
I'm hopeful that we will have a day where you don't have to be hired because the
boss would like to sleep with you.
You know?
So I think there's still that kind of element in,
in the news business.
So I think we need to get a lot more women in as I said,
leadership positions because I think they judge and hire people very differently
than men do and that that will go a long way in giving women more opportunities.
Great.
Thanks.
And I just want to follow up cause we're here also to talk about your podcast,
which again when we were talking just a really refreshing change to actually
hear someone dig into the news.
And again,
I was listening to the one about the election,
which I just found therapeutic listening to you and Doris really tease and go
back and forth on an issue instead of reducing something to with two and a half
minute segment on the evening news.
What are you trying to achieve in your work with the podcast and at Yahoo
compared to mainstream media?
Um,
what are you hoping to push forward?
Well,
with the podcast,
you know,
um,
one in five Americans I think listened to a podcast this month.
So there are increasingly popular way for people to get information and stay
informed and be entertained really.
So it was appealing to me,
uh,
because I think it can provide a much more intimate format.
People can,
um,
I think feel more comfortable expressing themselves.
It just feels more relaxed.
There's something about television I think that makes people feel a little
nervous and uncomfortable and have to kind of mind their p's and q's in a way
that you have on a podcast.
And it's just a little more free form.
You can really,
I think,
let the conversation be your guide rather than having sort of six questions you
have to get done in eight minutes.
And these days,
I mean the segments,
at least in morning television on evening newscasts are much,
much shorter.
So I,
you know,
I'm interested,
I'm endlessly curious about a lot of different things.
And so for me it just provides just another platform.
I think also because the media landscape is so fragmented,
I feel like I drank like eight cups of coffee.
I only drank,
I think I,
I'm sorry,
I'm just like,
I think maybe everybody's feeling this way.
So thank you for letting me kind of bent.
Um,
but I think that the media landscape is so fragmented that you have to be on
multiple platforms,
I think to reach an audience.
So for me it was just sort of all of those reasons,
being able to have a more in depth conversation,
that intimacy.
And you know,
at this point,
I've been in this business a long time,
so I know you know,
in that fake way sometimes.
But I do know a number of people and you know,
I've worked with Doris when I was at NBC and I just,
I adore her and,
um,
and I think she's so interesting and smart and so I could call her,
email her and,
um,
because of a preexisting condition,
but relationship,
um,
you know,
people like that are willing to come on.
So Samantha Bee came on who I've gotten to know a little bit and Julia Louis
Dreyfus and Larry Wilmore that a podcast is going to be released tomorrow and he
was just,
I don't,
I didn't know him very well,
but he was just so great and interesting and you know,
like,
did you know he was the executive producer of blackish and he also created the
east ray show on Hbo with Esra,
which I thought,
I didn't even know that about Larry.
I just thought,
you know,
he tried the nighttime thing after the daily show and it didn't really work out,
but he's super smart and super thoughtful.
Um,
and so I've just really enjoyed it.
And I do it with my,
uh,
afer mentioned colleague Brian Goldsmith,
who is like a walking,
talking dictionary of politics.
Um,
I always turn to him whenever I'm like,
Brian,
what percentage of voters and you know,
Scranton,
Pennsylvania did such and such.
And he's like,
oh,
Katie,
I'll tell you.
And he got,
um,
he got grounded in high school for sneaking out of his bedroom to watch c span.
So that's how that,
that,
that is how Geeky Brian is.
But I,
I just,
I think he,
he's,
he's like,
Eh,
have become a very close friend.
Um,
you know,
he's,
he's much younger than I am and a,
I really enjoy working with him and honestly,
I think he's so great.
I wanted,
I wanted to help launch him a little bit too.
And so when we're at Yahoo,
I try to make sure I include him in our coverage because as I said,
he's just so smart and has such an interesting perspective.
And,
um,
you know,
I really want to do more mentoring before I go to the grapes
or I'm in the nursing homes.
Cool.
You know,
curled in a corner,
you know,
talking incessantly like I'm doing today.
But I really want to help young people kind of find their way.
And so that's one of the reasons I wanted to do this podcast.
I wanted to introduce Brian to a larger audience.
Cool.
To let everyone know it is available on Google play music and on iTunes.
No,
no,
no.
Yeah,
please subscribe because we need to get more subscribers even if you don't
listen.
I wanted to talk a little bit about your work,
um,
with documentary film making because you've taken on some pretty tough
challenges and some of the films that you've produced fed up looking at the
obesity epidemic under the gun on the history of gun violence in America and
you're new,
um,
project for the National Geographic Channel,
uh,
gender revolution,
a journal with a journey with Katie.
Correct.
How did that project come about and what did you learn that surprised you?
Since we've been talking a lot about gender and it's clearly on everyone's
minds,
and I also want to remind people there are microphones.
I could talk to Katie forever,
but we'll let her talk about her a new documentary and um,
take it from there.
Um,
well,
you know,
I think for the same reasons that I was describing this fragmented and siloed
media environment where,
you know,
Gosh,
I'm sure you all have read it and reading a lot about fake news and you know,
these fake news sites and I know Google is taking a close look at that,
which I really commend Google for as well as Facebook because I think there was
so much misinformation.
Hi Erica.
Uh,
there was so much misinformation.
Erica actually convinced me to get on Twitter when I was at CBS News.
Damn you Erica.
Um,
but anyway,
um,
just on that subject,
uh,
Brian was telling me you a funny story and I,
I,
I don't know if you guys obviously probably got a lot of fake news and your
Facebook feeds or you were,
you know,
familiar with that.
I really get most of my news from newsletters and good old fashioned newspapers.
But,
um,
uh,
a friend of mine emailed me or texted me,
did you see this piece about huma and her connections in Saudi Arabia?
And I said,
Dana,
where did you see that?
Where did you get that?
And she said,
I'm not sure,
but it's all over social media.
And I'm like,
it's bullshit.
You can't listen to some of this stuff that is being fabricated to influence,
you know,
the voters across the country,
you have to go to more legitimate sources.
And Brian had a waitress at a diner,
he said a couple of days ago and said,
she said something like,
you know,
Houma and Hillary are lesbian lovers,
Houma,
Houma Converted Hillary to Islam and blah,
blah,
blah.
And Brian said,
well,
where are you getting this?
And she said,
it's all over the news.
So I think a lot of people cannot differentiate credible news sources from fake
news.
And I think it's very scary and dangerous.
Not to mention the fact that people are living in their own silos.
And as a friend of mine said,
looking for affirmation,
not information.
So,
you know,
that's another I think vaccine issue that the media is going to have to deal
with and the country's going to have to deal with.
And especially at a time where that trust in institutions is so low,
including the media.
What was the question?
Sorry,
I'm sorry.
My documentary.
So real quickly,
sorry,
real quickly,
sorry.
Objects in a much more in depth way you could touch on that but also the,
the new one that the gender revolution.
Well,
real quickly,
I just overall why wanted to get into the documentary space is I think it was my
frustration with the cursory treatment.
A lot of these subjects get in the mainstream media.
Um,
the fact that it's very hard,
you know,
there used to be white papers when I was growing up back in the day where there
would be our,
you know,
specials on a certain topic or Edward r Murrow would do harvest of shame and
talk about migrant workers and you know,
they took a look at some of these big looming social issues and really kind of
unpack them and dissected them and tried to understand why it was happening,
how we got here and what we can do about it.
And I thought there was such a,
a dearth of those kinds of stories.
It's sort of an add on media in general or in media in general.
And I was interested in,
for example,
childhood obesity.
I thought,
I've been covering this for 30 years.
I don't know if anybody here watch that up.
But I've been covering this childhood obesity for 30 years and it keeps getting
worse.
And I wanted to really understand the underpinnings of this social ill.
So I really explored it in a,
in a very full way.
And I,
I found it very gratis,
ratifying and satisfying to do that.
Similarly with the gun issue,
you know,
I think we hear all these terms like gun show loophole or um,
all kinds of things about,
you know,
whether it's a background check or whatever.
And I think in,
we hear so many fragments of news that I wanted to be able to connect the dots
to give people the information they needed so they could have an intelligent and
less polarizing conversation about gun violence in America.
That was my goal.
And with the gender,
you know,
my daughter is a junior at Stanford and she is very,
very socially conscious and uh,
she's worked,
she wants to work for the southern poverty law center this summer.
She's very upset about the state of the world.
And she,
um,
she told me at Stanford and discussion groups,
everybody goes around in the circle and they introduce themselves by their name
and their,
uh,
not,
it's no longer even called preferred pronoun but Pronoun.
And I thought,
that's really interesting.
And then every day it seemed to me,
I was reading about whether it was gender nonconforming people and of course
trans,
uh,
people have gotten a lot more attention.
Um,
I think in part because of Caitlyn Jenner and you know,
celebrity can actually really be very influential and,
and I think,
um,
advancing a conversation or,
or a cause.
And so I wanted to understand it better because let's face it,
I'm a 59,
five,
59 year old CIS gender woman.
So cool right now.
But you know,
and so I was like,
I,
this is very new to me and even some of my very progressive friends who are more
of my generation were having a hard time kind of understanding all this.
And I thought,
you know,
the only way we can be more appreciative and more tolerant and more
understanding is if we are better educated.
So I set out on this little gender journey and I interviewed people,
transgender people of different ages.
I interviewed intersects people to try to understand sort of the origins of
gender and the biological factors that,
that may have us be one gender or another or neither or somewhere in between.
And um,
I went to Yale and I talked to a lot of,
uh,
Lgbtq kids about kind of how young people see gender.
And I noticed there was quite a generational divide.
And so I,
you know,
I'm just,
I,
I'm one of those crazy people.
I just am very curious about the world even now.
And,
and I think I'm very curious,
most importantly about the changing world.
And transitions are really difficult.
I'm not talking about gender churches into,
but you know,
the way the country is transitioning is I think very confusing for a lot of
people and I think they may be more traditional or have more,
you know,
and I had been conditioned to see things a certain way.
So I'm trying to help myself be educated and continue learning and as a result
hopefully help other people as well.
Great.
And I think it probably couldn't come at a better time for people to educate
and,
and learn more.
Um,
Erica,
the cursive era.
Erica America.
Yeah.
Katie,
thank you so much for here.
Um,
so I just want to comment first on your mentorship.
you know,
you do,
you put your,
your money where your mouth is.
Like you helped my time at CBS evening news.
I'm launching my career to go to spend four years at Twitter or helping them
shape the way they think about news and now it Google news lab team.
So thank you for giving me the opportunity.
Um,
my question for you is obviously technology companies to to that I've worked for
now at Google are really grappling with their role in,
in news,
in the news ecosystem and um,
having worked for you,
one of the most important things I learned about his sharp news judgement and
the amount of time you think about an editorial teams.
Think about,
um,
what makes it is the gatekeeper,
to,
to the front porch.
And so I'm curious what kind of advice,
candid advice you would offer to,
um,
if folks at Google,
at Facebook,
at Twitter executives who are or non executives who are thinking about the
responsibility and grappling with the UN defining it undefined manner and role
in which they play in this new somewhat unbalanced information ecosystem?
I mean,
that's a huge question and I think one that really is going to take some soul
searching on the part of these companies and media outlets and tech companies.
You know,
um,
you know,
it's,
it's such a balance,
right?
You want people to see the content sometimes to get them to see the content in
this incredibly flooded space,
right,
is to make very click baity headlines.
Now,
sometimes click baity headlines actually are,
uh,
do represent what the article is saying.
I talked to Fred Ryan,
who's a friend of mine who publishes The Washington Post and they've been very
successful with their digital news.
And he was talking about,
they had an article about Sussex.
I'm having a hard time talking about the succession.
I have always had a hard time with six session and Saudi Arabia.
And they,
they headlined it one particular way and it didn't get much traffic.
But when they wrote game of Thrones and Saudi Arabia,
a lot of people clicked on it.
So I think there's,
you know,
it's all nuanced and it's all judgment and it's all,
when do you go too far?
When,
when is it appropriate with these new tools and technology?
Um,
and so listen,
I think part of the reason that,
you know,
some people would say we're in the situation we're in,
is because there was no,
there weren't enough gatekeepers.
You know,
anybody who did road,
anything could put it out there.
And you know,
it could be seen as news that,
you know,
Hillary Clinton and Bill Clinton had killed all these people,
and that got pushed out.
And for some people who may not be as well informed or use to really getting
their news and information from a variety of sources,
they may in fact believe these things,
you know,
some that are written in Macedonia,
who knows?
And so I think we've started to see,
uh,
an evaluation of the roles and responsibility that these tech companies and
media organizations have.
Um,
and,
and dispensing and dispersing accurate information.
You know,
it's interesting you mentioned Gwen.
I fall who I just,
you know,
was a really wonderful person.
I didn't know her that well,
but I had spent some time with her and I was reading a piece and the the Poynter
Institute,
um,
that does sort of journalistic integrity and responsibility.
And they said,
you know,
it's interesting and all these obituaries and tributes to Gwen,
they talked about how reasonable and fair and accurate where she was and how
those attributes have just not become,
um,
celebrated in our media culture that it is much better these days to be
provocative.
Right.
And rather than,
than fair and accurate cause who wants fair and accurate,
that's so boring.
You know,
you want to have an edge,
you want to have a point of view.
So I think we have to be very,
very careful that the pendulum hasn't swung too far too provocative and,
and isn't at the expense of being accurate.
And,
and,
right.
Thank you.
Thank you Erica.
I planted her.
Not really.
I didn't really,
I was surprised to see you're actually,
hi.
Should we take more?
Yeah,
yeah.
Well,
first off,
thanks so much for coming.
Um,
but someone who has been watching you for most of my life,
I vote,
uh,
respect you tremendously and I trust you.
And so I've been so depressed about the election,
but I finally felt comforted when I heard you talking about it.
So can I just purely selfishly ask you to say something hopeful or optimistic
and the wake of this whole,
and about,
that's how
thinking about women and politics
ticks and it's so deeply depressing and I just want to have something positive
to think of.
Well,
you know,
there are some great things.
Carla Harris,
Tammy Duckworth,
you know,
I think for,
uh,
women were elected,
more diverse women.
I think,
you know,
um,
I,
I want to be helpful.
I think it's so unclear the path forward for the country right now that I don't
want to be,
you know,
falsely optimistic.
Um,
I mean I think,
I think the good democracy will survive and the country will survive.
But I think we're going through some very painful and intense growing pains.
And I think,
um,
you know,
I,
this is unchartered territory.
Having said that,
I,
I also believe there are many likeminded people who hold certain values very
dear of social justice and equality and,
um,
that somehow,
you know,
what I worry about is just how,
how far apart these two Americas seem to feel and seem to be.
Um,
and how,
how can we have this venn diagram where we overlap on some things.
Um,
I also want to believe that there are not even with Republican controlled
everything,
uh,
in Washington that there are enough checks and balances that things will
stabilize.
Um,
but it's interesting,
a woman in the Atlantic,
I think it's a woman,
uh,
but a writer in the Atlantic wrote about voters should not take Donald Trump.
Literally,
voters took Donald Trump,
sorry.
The media took him literally and not seriously.
And voters took him,
uh,
did not take him literally,
but took him seriously.
And so I think it really remains to be seen what he's going to do.
Visa VI,
immigration,
you know,
you hear different things every day about the wall or the deportation force.
And you know,
I think it sounds like the transition team is in some significant disarray at
this,
at this juncture.
So I think,
I think the most optimistic thing I could say is we have to be patient,
you know,
don't freak out yet.
And just sort of,
I do think what Hillary Clinton said and her concession speech of we need to
give,
have an open mind to give him a chance to lead.
Um,
so we'll just have to see where that takes us.
But I do believe,
you know,
we're doing a series on ya who called American goodness because I thought we
need to celebrate what's happening at the grassroots level in communities all
across the country and we're celebrating these programs and these individuals
who are doing amazing things.
I just interviewed a man yesterday named Karen's coffee,
who was in and out of prison for 20 years and he went through the,
the doe fund.
I don't know if you all have ever heard of the doe fund.
You might've seen the guys out on the street with their ready,
willing and able jackets clean,
cleaning up a trash with their buckets.
And it's a program where,
uh,
recently incarcerated individuals go through and they give training and housing
and expertise and really a hand hand up as he said,
not a handout.
And Terrence coffee went through the program after,
as I said,
being incarcerated in and out of jail for prison for 20 years.
He ended up going to Bronx community college,
graduating.
He said five Theta Kapp.
I'd never heard of that.
But I guess for community colleges,
that's the equivalent of five Beta kappa.
He then went on to Nyu,
transferred there,
uh,
I graduated with a degree in social work and now he's getting his master's at
Nyu and helping other,
uh,
people who have been just released from prison.
And he was so eloquent and so inspiring.
And you look at a program like that,
which is really helping people,
decreasing the recidivism rate,
helping people make a transition into a positive life.
And it was so inspiring.
And so I'm trying to put a spotlight on people who are doing just these
incredibly important and impactful,
that's not really a word,
but it that became more but impactful things in their local communities.
And I mean it really does renew your faith in the human spirit.
So I think maybe think a little more micro cosmically and get involved in
things.
I saw that um,
contributions to the Adl have gone up I think 80% because of the increase in
hate crimes across the country.
So,
you know,
get involved.
I'm very upset that a lot of people didn't vote.
Right now they're saying 46% of registered voters did not vote.
I mean that number isn't a definitive but turnout was that a 20 year low?
And I think that's disgusting and embarrassing.
And I feel like if you're protesting,
you better damn well have voted to,
oh,
sorry.
Yeah,
it,
I got all down or
most of that before I go to bed.
I wanted to circle back Katie to something we talked about when they introduced
you,
which is your work on cancer and health care.
And in terms of finding inspiration and forging a path forward where maybe we've
felt less hopeful in the past cause I think stand up to cancer and some of the
other initiatives you've been involved in.
I'm hoping you could tell us a bit more about what,
what new approaches are being tried there.
What makes you hopeful that maybe there is a new way forward in,
um,
cancer treatment?
Well,
I'm really thank you for asking it and I mean,
I'm really hoping that we're,
we're paving a new way and sort of establishing a new paradigm just very quickly
what the whole approach of stand up to cancer is.
Laura Ziskin,
who a Hollywood producer who passed away from breast cancer,
she produced Spiderman and other big movies.
Uh,
she joined forces for Sherry Lansing,
me and six other crazy type a women.
And we said,
you know,
the pace of the pace of research is just too slow.
We have to support our scientists to in a much stronger,
more palpable way.
And so we started raising money.
We do a telecast every two years and we are actually,
our whole approach is collaboration.
Not Competition.
So we have established dream teams of scientists who are all working together
from different institutions,
from pharmaceutical companies,
from biotech firms,
and are all focusing their time and energy on once a pancreatic cancer,
when his cancer Epi,
which is a relatively new field and they're all collaborating and sharing their
resources,
their brainpower,
the grants,
the tissue samples,
whatever it takes.
So we can move science forward faster.
And I think right now we have two FDA approved drugs and you know,
I think there we're making progress.
I also think it's been a big shot in the arm to the cancer community,
to Hollywood.
The Entertainment Industry Foundation is the umbrella organization of stand up
to cancer and Hollywood has come out to support these scientists in a big way.
And so I think I hopefully,
hopefully it's elevated their standing and their status in society because to me
they are the unsung heroes and heroines of,
of,
of the world.
And we're able to,
with the money that we pledge and raise and get from great corporate sponsors,
like Major League baseball and Mastercard Fund,
their research because only one in 10 promising research proposals is actually
funded by the federal government.
We have a lot of,
a lot to make up for in terms of,
you know,
giving the scientists the,
the resources they need.
So,
you know,
it's been a really exciting opportunity for me to,
to spread the word about the need for cancer research dollars.
You know,
I,
I initially focused on colon cancer because maybe you guys are too young to
remember,
but my husband died of colon cancer when he was 42 in 1998 and I,
you know,
did a colonoscopy on TV.
You all are probably still too young to remember that,
but it was kind of a big deal,
very big deal.
And uh,
and,
and colonoscopies went up.
20% is results.
So I've been a big advocate and a big,
um,
proponent of prevention.
Um,
but I felt like I was giving all my attention to the colons and not enough
attention to all these other cancers that badly needed funding.
So it's been really gratifying for me to be involved with stand up to cancer.
And the scientists are so remarkable.
I mean,
if you just want to be blown away,
just talk to the selfless scientists who spend hours and hours with very little,
uh,
attention and very little positive feedback and they're just working their asses
off trying to figure out and unlock the mystery of cancer.
And it's such an important time for cancer research because of big data because
of,
you know,
genomics and uh,
this whole confluence of things that are coming together that make it,
that makes this an incredibly exciting time.
And you know,
I just want,
want people to have more options,
even if it's means managing cancerous,
if it's a chronic disease.
Great.
Thank you.
Again,
just incredibly inspirational.
And I was one of the people who watched your colonoscopy
and it was,
it was inspirational.
It was groundbreaking.
And I think it just removed a lot of the taboos about talking about our bodies
and what we could do to take care of them.
And Katie also did a mammogram on air,
which again,
for young women in particular,
these are just drew the line at a pap smear.
People take our next audience question.
So before I became a Googler,
I want it to be Katie Couric on the show.
True.
It's not what it's called.
No,
but you know,
you showed that as a woman in a career you could be serious and respected but
also funny and warm.
And um,
unfortunately as you've mentioned today,
a lot like we've seen this shift on the morning shows from less serious to more
fluff.
Um,
and so I'm just curious how much you had to grapple with that when you were on
air and what as viewers we can do to kind of demand more serious,
um,
coverage,
knowing that the morning shows are still where a lot of people just get their
news.
Well,
you know,
I think,
um,
you know,
obviously I'm still very friendly with a lot of people on the today show.
And I think you'll see,
I think you've seen a return to more serious news during this political season.
I think for awhile,
uh,
the today show was trying to emulate good morning America,
which is a little more,
uh,
lighthearted and um,
but then I think they returned to sort of,
they're more journalistic roots center now a bit more serious.
Um,
you know,
I think it's hard because again,
they're feeling the pressure of competition with people getting information on
their phones and little bits and pieces and they're trying to,
to maintain the audience as well.
Um,
but I still think a lot of great work is done in the morning.
I think,
you know,
cvs has done some really good work and as a little more slower paced,
um,
and a little,
a little harder probably.
Um,
but you know,
I'll tell them you said that.
And you know,
I used to,
I used to push for certain things and uh,
I was kind of a squeaky wheel on that show and I would be like,
I am not doing another story on Lacy Peterson today unless something actually
happened in the case.
Um,
and so I think,
I think,
let them know how you feel and write to them and communicate.
And when you see something you like that you appreciate,
you know,
let them know and give them positive feedback because I think a lot of people
feel the same way you do.
I mean,
I think the great thing about when I did the today show that I loved is you
could do a hard hitting interview in one half hour,
you know,
with someone like Lee Iacocca or I even interviewed David Duke back in the day.
And then,
you know,
later on in the show you could do something really fun.
And then there was always those in between segments,
which I thought were really important too about health.
You know,
that's not so much about science,
but you know,
maybe about the,
you know,
how often you should see your doctor when you should be for this,
that and the other thing,
really important sort of news you can use and things that I thought were a real
public service.
So,
um,
I'll let my friends at the today show know that you appreciate the harder stuff
as well on that.
You'd like to see more of it.
Okay,
great.
Thank you.
Last audience.
All right,
thank you for being here.
So the one related to the previous question,
you mentioned earlier that a lot of news networks are driven by ratings and
ultimately profits even though it's sometimes conflict to the journalistic
ideals.
Do you think there's value to having a BBC style at Guttman funded news network?
What journalism really is the first,
second and third priority?
Yeah,
I did get there one day.
Um,
I don't know,
you know,
I think,
I think it's all up for grabs.
I mean,
I think,
uh,
well,
you know,
we have PBS,
right?
And so news hour I think,
did you,
you watch news hour?
Yeah.
And um,
you know,
I think for a lot of people they think it's,
it's um,
okay,
it's maybe too old fashioned or boring or you know,
not splashing enough.
But I'm really hoping that after all this,
you know,
people are going to want to eat their vegetables and not eat cotton candy and
brownies all the time that they're going to Wa that they'll have more of an
appetite for longer form.
Stories aren't even on their phones and that,
you know,
we're always,
oh,
we can't,
we can't make things too long.
And I appreciate that and I think there's a balance but that people will stay
engaged with,
with,
with longer material that attention spans won't have been destroyed forever from
some of these social media platforms.
So I'm optimistic that,
that people really care about these issues and they want to understand them and
you can't understand complicated issues in 140 characters.
Yup.
Great.
So I want to close out with,
um,
one of our traditions here at Google that we do an internal interviews with
folks is the Proust queries,
which was a parlor game,
um,
that was popularized by Marcel Proust and it's just thought to give insight into
a person's true nature.
Ro Ro,
I think about these.
Which historical figure do you most identify with?
Hi,
with,
yeah.
Well,
I think that's a ridiculous question
because I mean really,
what are you supposed to say?
I mean it's so narcissistic.
Um,
so Gandhi,
I mean,
I don't know Betty boop,
but I have no idea.
Honestly,
next I'm not answering that.
What I want to know what other people have answered all
okay.
Over the map.
I mean,
people pick sports figures,
they pick entertainment figures.
Yes.
This is why it's,
you know,
giving insight.
Okay.
So we can,
we can pivot a little bit.
So who is your favorite hero of fiction or history?
Not that you identify with,
but I guess who do you
most admire in fiction or in real life?
You can pick either one.
I have one in fiction and one real okay.
Give,
give us,
and they're both honestly so boring,
but I'll tell you anyway.
Um,
I think in real life it's Eleanor Roosevelt because she had to put up with so
much crap and did so much and cared about inequality and injustice and
underserved Americans long before it was fashionable to do so.
And,
uh,
I admire her so much.
Her commitment to public service throughout the course of her career.
The fact that she worked on expanding women's roles in the workplace,
this was a long,
long time ago.
And the fact that,
you know,
she was mocked and paraded in the early stages of her career and universally
admired and was considered one of the most esteemed women,
uh,
of her,
of her day at the end of her life.
Um,
I really admire her so much.
fiction.
Uh,
this is so boring too and so like predictable,
but I don't care.
Um,
Atticus finch in to kill a mockingbird,
uh,
not in to kill a mockingbird less so and go set a watchman if you all read the
second book.
Um,
although I wasn't as critical,
I think go set a watchman was a,
was a fairly true reflection of what Harper Lee was writing about at the time.
She did write to kill a mockingbird,
um,
just because he is just the epitome of decency and courage and compassion and
love.
And he was a great father.
And I,
you know,
I just,
I just really long for those kinds of people.
I don't know why I'm getting a little foot the here and I had a huge thing for
Gregory Peck.
Cool.
Leave it there.
And thank you so much.
Um,
I think I speak for everyone here.
It was wonderful to have you here on any day,
but particularly at this point in our country's history and given what we're all
trying to come to terms with,
um,
it's just one ACO with Betsy said,
particularly impactful to hear from you today.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.